---
layout: post
title:      "This weird thing called software engenering: A bout me and how I got here."
date:       2019-11-05 13:35:42 +0000
permalink:  this_weird_thing_called_software_engenering_a_bout_me_and_how_i_got_here
---


Where do I begin? Hmmm, well I guess you need to know about me to really understand why this journey is happening. Forgive me as I am not much of a writter. I will say that my reasoning is pretty personal so if this is a bit sappy forgive me.

I go by many names. That sounds cheesey but it really is the truth! I come from a very multicultural background. My father is african american and filipino. My mother is cacasian and white. I know, thats a lot going on there. Trust me, ***I know.*** My father is not really in touch with any of his Filipino family or cultural heritage so... that kinda is the stopping point there. I just know that I am Pinay (Filipino). As for my korean heritage, I was raised in Busan, South Korea for some time. This is what gives me many names. My legal first name I never used. I won't even bother stating it as I prefer never to use it. My korean name is ChoHee Kwon (권초희) and my legal American name is Marie (middle) Hughes. Kwon being my mothers Maiden name and Hughes being my fathers surname. I honestly prefer to go by Cho or ChoHee. However, unless I am in person to tell someone how it sounds... I go by Marie. Reason being is, Cho some how always gets pronunce as Chow. It's more like Joe but Ch instead of J sound. My name often causes confusion. Infact, it did with the addmissions here. I signed up with my American name but every corespondents email had Cho. I am pretty use to explaining this all the time at this point... Wow, the first paragraph is about my name only. This is going to be interesting. But now that we have that out of the way...

Hello! I am Cho and it is a pleasure to meet you.  
I am from a nerdy, tech driven, computer master race, and just point blank dorky family. My father has always ran a one man computer buisness. At a young age I can remember him teaching me to build, repair, and enjoy computers. My father was always on the more physical side of things when it came to them. He never took any formal lessons but has more knowledge than most who have. My father was a self-taught man. Something I have always found very inspiring. So, much so that at a young age I learned to do many things to help him with his business. I can't tell you how many times my dad and I stayed up working on things together. Not just work however! He would some nights wait till his wife went to bed and let me sneak into the gaming room to play games with him. Probably not the most responsible thing to wake your child at 1am to play Serious Sam or Unreal tournement but... This was how we bonded, Computers! I fell in love with technology because of him. Even more so because I was never really good at school in the traditional sense. I have ADD and retaining information that I find boring is a difficult task. My father taught me to learn by taking apart, trial and error, until it works. He, a man who dropped out of highschool at 14, taught me that inteligence is not something found in books alone. That some can learn through tinkering. That while some can read a book and remember every line (Not a gift of mine), others have the talent of learning through doing. It was this notion that first sparked the intrest in coding. My dad knew everything about the physical and I for a long time wants to learn more of the inner workings. I thought this could make us a unstoppable father daughter duo.

Now heads up, I am going to time jump here because... well honestly... Theres not much to say. To summarize the time from then till now: I followed status quo. Once in highschool I stopped tinkering as it was drilled into my head that college and such was the only way. I went to college because I was ***suppose*** to. I went for a degree that I hated because I was ***suppose*** to and in the end.... I didn't make it. It crushed me for a while. I was pressured into trying to be who I was ***suppose*** to be instead of ***who I was***. The whole time my loving father was very encouraging, even though he knew I was unhappy. It should be mentioned that my half brother is a genius. Full ride to college, straight A valedictorian... almost movie style, I was the unaccomplished and untalented sibling. I felt I had to do these things because of the pressure of being in his shadow and being reminded of that by my step mother. 

Several dead end jobs later and I hit a breaking point. I had a child. I had a divorce. I had followed all the rules of life... and I was unhappy. I was unfulfilled and after a particularly bad day at work... I called my dad crying. Now, let it be known, my dad is not an emotional guy. Very tough love kind of man. He shows his love by getting parts for my computer without me asking, calling to talk about video games coming out, and/or calling to go on one of his angry old man rants because he just wants to talk. However, on that phone call my dad let a side of him show that I have only seen in extreme circustances such as death. My dad was emotional with me. My dad told me that he was always proud when he saw me working on computers back in the day. How when when I spoke of going to school for it, that it was like I was following in his footsteps. How he saw himself in me when I was working with him. How when I was learning by doing that he could see a different side of me. How I have been trying so hard to be like my brother and making everyone else happy that I hadn't spent time doing what makes me happy. He then brought up coding. Asked me why I never did it. I went to tell him why and the truth was... I was afraid of failure. I could fail at things I didn't like and it would hurt. However, It wouldn't crush me. I had been so afraid of failing that I just decided to never take the first step. After hours on the phone and what is probably the most heartfelt conversation I have had with him... I did a google search. I was unhappy so what did I really have to lose? I looked into it and just on a crazy whim I put in an application here at flatiron.

I didn't think they would get back to me so fast. I did the interview. I got accepted and the first thing I did was call my dad. He was over the moon! He was talking about game plans for helping me do school full time and quit my job so I could give it my all. We got my friends involved. Everyone was incredibly supportive and ready to help. I won't lie, I was very terrified of this experince and still am. It's like everyone is taking a bet on me almost. *The underdog*. Even so, these last weeks have been amazing. I really do love coding. I get so excited and happy when those labs come back with no failures. It's not all fun and games. There has been points of me being frustrated and worrying that I will fail. That I will let myself down and everyone supporting me in this journey.  However, this is a learning structure I can succeed with. Everything we learn, I am getting to put into use and from that retaining it quickly. It's honestly been just.... magical. For so long I have done so much that I felt I had to do and now finally doing something for me...Something that makes me happy. Something I feel I could be good at.... I might be the underdog in the story of my brother but here I plan to be so much more than that. I didn't want to make this too personal but... my reason and love for this is just that. I'm happy from being here. More than I can put into words. I am looking forward to where this is going to lead me. I'm investing in myself and I am glad that finally those dreams as a kid are becoming a **reality.**
