---
layout: post
title:      "Sinatra Portfolio Project"
date:       2020-03-14 01:03:30 +0000
permalink:  sinatra_portfolio_project
---


This project has been a roller coaster to say the least. When I went into it, let’s just say I bit off more than I could chew. My idea for the project I felt was something not too complex. The idea was to have a website that you could sign up. Once you signed up you could join a group or create a group. Through those groups you would have post. You could join as many groups as you wanted and create as many groups as you wanted. The post from one group would stay on that groups page.

This was my first error. I tend to do this and it is not always a bad thing to dream big… but for my current ability level it was more than I could handle. I spent the first week working on the project this way The user would have_many_and_belong_to_many groups. Through groups the user would have post. At first it did start out well. I set up the users first. I created the views and routes needed for it. Then I added in the groups and started to work on that. However, something I have learned from, I got ahead of myself and decided to work on my post while working on my groups. I honestly was having the hardest time trying to figure out tables for all of this. I was researching and the more I looked into it the more confused I got. I was thinking I would come back to it as I went and figure it out as I go.

I should note here that I was a little behind at the start of the project. Due to just life’s need to hand out lemons, I had speed through the work trying to balance both school and life. I realized as I got to the project that I had been doing a lot of “working to complete” instead of working to know. By the time the project came around I realized my retention from balancing had failed me. So while working on the project I also had to reaffirm and solidify a good deal of information.

This is where a MAJOR slip up happened. I broke it. I broke it bad. I had been using the corneal gem to do this project. While doing this I was using corneal scaffold NAME method to create my model, views, and controller. For whatever reason (I am honestly still not sure as I honestly do not remember if I did this or that how corneal did it)  my join table for users and groups was labeled groups_users. This bothered me for no reason. So without thinking… I changed it via the file. I thought nothing of it and changed it everywhere it appeared. This was incredibly wrong but at the moment I thought nothing of it…. Then because the table had been removed I had the problem of my database still asking for it. I spent hours with a friend trying to correct it but at one point I just gave. I was already in over my head with the structure I had in place. I had been working on it at this point for several days with only 10 days left to finish it. It was time to be realistic and go back to the drawing board.

So round two! The users belong to one group. The groups belong to users. Users have many post. I realized that I didn’t want to post through groups. I was worried that I wouldn’t have enough time given the fact that I started the project ahead of schedule and had used almost a week of the 2 week schedule to only trash it. Luckily a good bit of my code from the first project was reusable. I had some reworking to do but a lot of it was good to go. Once getting the new project up and going, as well getting it all set up to work with the new format. I decided to work correctly. I started with a route and a view at a time. It was flowing much better at this time. After about 2 days I was further than I had been on the first project. Further showing me that I really wasn't ready for the complexity I was trying to accomplish at first.

I will just be honest. I went for the bare minimum. The first project crashing and burning made me feel very knowledgeable and I was lacking faith in myself at this point. I got all of the groups and users done, so I turned my focus to the html of the views. At first I was putting in what I needed just to have it working and to test. I wanted to have a similar format on all pages as to make it easier to read and coherent. I also wanted to add in a little bit of extra features. I spent a good deal of time on a navigation bar. At first it started out the same regardless of if someone was logged in. I felt it was key to just have it work in general before figuring out how to have it change with user logged in.


Once the navigation bar was set up and running, I turned my focus back to the last part that I had. POST! Now this is where last time everything crashed and burned for me so… I put it off. No kidding could have/should have started on it but I just felt low and was not ready at the time. However, once I started it I was done before I knew so I was feeling confident! I figured that I had hardly made any helpers and that my comfortability with them was less than ideal. I hit this point at about 5 days before the last friday of the project. I was thinking I had more than enough time to learn more about them and to finish up.

This time I was smarter about making sure to be careful. I went ahead and created a new branch called ”playing around” and was going to use this as an area to just run with ideas without fear of wrecking it. This was my first time making a new branch and it will be something I for sure use again in the future. HOWEVER, I did not realize the need and use to frequently commit. Something I will be better about the next time around as… I SEE the importance. If you commit after every change it gives you a history to see what was changed. This is very important if you are experimenting and trying new things. It allows you to change things back easier. I won’t lie… I went helper crazy. I made WAY too many just seeing all the ways I could use it. It ended up making a mess that took forever to correct. 

I ended up breaking it all again. This time I was able to fix it but honestly I took a day off to just get a break. I had been coding all day everyday for weeks at this point and was burnt out. When I came back the issue I needed to work on was params. To best explain it I will use what my friend called “ruby magic.” I had been using params really all over the place without understanding how it was grabbing the wrong things. Another thing that I either did not retain or just never full grasp and had been using incorrectly. I had to read up on it and even get a friend to explain it to me because reading alone was confusing me a bit. However, once I got it I was good to go!

The last day I worked on the project I did the rest of my seed data which was post and proofreading for spelling errors. All in all this was a very tiring process to be honest. Life lessons were learned. Dream big… but start small. COMMIT! COMMIT! COMMIT!! As well as that branches are a nice way to try new things without the chance of completely wrecking everything. IF I could do it all again I would and I would start where I did with the second version of my project. I am honestly not happy with it as I feel like I could have done more and better if I had started it off correctly. However, it is still an accomplishment. I now know a lot more than I did going in. It’s a learning experience for sure.
